So now we're going to be putting into practice all the
things that we've covered within this module,
and we'll actually be deploying a trained model
using SageMaker Hosting Services.
So here, over the course of this demo,
we're first going to be training a model using a SageMaker algorithm.
But please note, this is not the focus of this module.
So we'll be pushing through this portion of the demo pretty quickly.
Next, we'll be saving the trained model into SageMaker.
And then from that, we'll be creating an endpoint configuration.
And then based on that endpoint configuration, we'll be deploying an endpoint.
And then from that,
we'll be implementing multiple production variants into an endpoint.
So let's dive in.
So I'm here in SageMaker Studio,
and I've already uploaded the notebook that is included
with the exercise files for this module,
and I've opened it up.
I've also selected the Python 3 Data Science kernel for this notebook.
Now we're going to be using the common MNIST dataset.
Again,
the focus of this particular module is not around the data
or how the model is actually trained,
but we'll be quickly pushing through those things first.
So first, we're going to need to load our dataset.
Now as mentioned, this is a publicly available dataset.
And included in this, we're going to have a trained dataset,
a validation set, and a test set.
So first, we're going to pull down that data.
Now the next thing we want to do is be able to quickly visualize
the data that we're going to be working with.
This is important because we'll need to understand the context as well
be validating our model later within this notebook.
So I have included a few sample functions that will help
us with that visualization process.
So I'm going to go ahead and run this cell.
And once this is completed,
we'll now be able to visualize some samples of each of the
different classes from within this dataset.
Now the MNIST dataset contains examples of
handwritten digits that are 28px x 28px.
And here, you can see,
we have examples all the way from 0 to 9 to help understand the
data that we're going to be working with.
Now if we want to dive into a specific digit and help to understand some of
the challenges we're going to have to solve with our model,
we can use this particular call to get back examples of the number 7,
and here we have 40 different versions of the number 7.
Now the next thing we're going to need to do because we are
going to use SageMaker to actually train our dataset is that
we need to upload our data into S3.
And before we can upload it, we need to be sure that it's in the right format.
In this case,
we want to be sure our data is going to be in a CSV format that the
algorithm we're going to work with can handle.
So in this case, we'll go ahead and run this.
And you'll see here at the end,
we're going to be uploading to three different areas.
We're going to be saving our training dataset,
test dataset,
and validation set all within different folders within our S3 bucket.
And now we can see that that process has completed,
and we have uploaded our training dataset,
which is going to be 50,000 items, our test dataset,
which is 10,000, and validation, which is also 10,000.
In addition,
each of those have been saved within the S3 bucket that we've specified.
Now it's important to remember,
you'll need to add in the name of the S3 bucket and any prefix that you want to
use here within this notebook before you run it because you won't have
permission to access the bucket that I have included here.
Now the next thing we need to do is we need to actually train our model.
So we need to go get the container for the XGBoost algorithm.
Now I'm specifying the newest version here.
You may have to specify a different version if you also
want to be using the latest version.
Now that we've pulled in that container,
we can now go through the process of creating our estimator,
setting our hyperparameters,
and then going through the process of training our model.
As mentioned, this isn't the focus of this module.
So I'll just include this here,
and we'll go ahead and start the training process.
So now that our model training is completed,
we're now ready to proceed with the deployment process.
And just a quick reminder,
we're going to be doing three different things to deploy our
models with SageMaker Hosting Services.
First, we're going to be creating a model,
which will actually be registering our model in with SageMaker.
We'll then be creating an endpoint configuration,
which specifies how we want our inference endpoint to work.
And then we'll be actually creating the endpoint itself.
So first, we need to create a model within SageMaker.
Now it's important to note that within Python,
there are two different ways that you can interact with SageMaker.
First, you can use the AWS SDK for Python directly,
or you can use the SageMaker SDK.
The SageMaker SDK is going to simplify many of the tasks.
For example, there is a single deploy call you can make with the SageMaker SDK,
which will take care of all three steps that I just mentioned.
However,
it doesn't give you some of the configuration options that we
will need later within this particular demo.
So because of that, at this point, we're going to be switching over,
and we're going to leverage the AWS SDK for Python
for the remainder of this notebook.
So the first step is to create a model within SageMaker.
Now we're first going to give our model a name,
and then we need to give some information about the
container that it needs to run on for inference.
And then we'll call the create_model call from the AWS SDK for Python.
And then from this,
we should get back information that would allow us to
actually view our model within the console.
So we'll go ahead and execute this cell. And here, I'm going to click on the
link to view in console. And here we can see within our account, we now have
a model that has been registered, and included in this is going to be the
image that needs to be used for inference with this model. We also can see
where it is saved within S3.
So now I'll close this and go back to our notebook in SageMaker Studio.
Now the next step that I mentioned was creating an endpoint configuration,
and this dictates how inference is actually going to work on that endpoint.
And so here, within our endpoint configuration,
we're going to be controlling several settings.
Now some of these here you don't need to specify if you're not
using multiple production variants. We'll cover multiple
production variants later within this demo.
But for now, we're really concerned with passing in the InstanceType,
which will be the types of instances that are spun up for
our endpoint, the InitialInstanceCount,
meaning the number of instances that are going to be included
when we launch our endpoint, and the ModelName,
which is the model name that we specified earlier.
And that's how it will know how to fetch our model for the inference endpoint.
So at this point, we'll go ahead and run this cell.
And just as with the model, we can actually do and view this in the console.
And we can see that this is an endpoint configuration,
and all of the values that we've specified are going to be included in here.
We can see that there is a single production variant that is specified,
and it's going to be running an ml.m4.xlarge instance type.
So now that we have that in place,
we can now proceed to the third and final step in the deployment process,
which is actually creating the endpoint.
Now this is a relatively easy step once we have that
configuration in place. We're going to call the
create_endpoint method on the Python AWS SDK.
We're going to pass in both the endpoint name that we've created
and the config that we previously created.
So now that that's in place,
we'll go ahead and start the process of creating that.
Now it's important to note, this will take a few minutes to
get your endpoint up and running. And then,
once it's up and running,
we'll be able to go through and validate the deployment of our endpoint.
So now that our deployment is complete,
we can see that our endpoint is up and running.
So two things that we need to notice, first, is that the status is InService,
meaning that we can actually call our endpoint,
and we can also see the URL for our endpoint.
Now let's go back to the notebook,
and the next step here is going to be to validate the
model and the deployment of that model.
So what I'm going to be doing here is we're going to loop over 10
examples from our test dataset. Then, we're going to call the
invoke_endpoint function of the SageMaker runtime API.
So from here,
I'm going to be able to pull back the inference, and we're going
to actually view that alongside the images. And here we can see
these starting to come back in. We can see initially we have a 7
with the prediction of a 7,
and you can see all 10 of the different examples that we've pulled back.
Now this is perfect.
This gives us a model with a single production variant that we have
deployed that we can then integrate in with our own custom
applications and workflows because we've deployed it as an endpoint
on SageMaker Hosting Services.
However, in situations where we're building a true continuous delivery workflow,
there will be times when we want to actually do A/B testing of our
models and evaluate the performance against either.
So to do that,
we're going to update our configuration to include multiple production variants.
So the first thing we're going to do here is we're going to retrain a model.
You'll notice here that we're calling this one xgb_model2,
and we're going to be slightly adjusting our hyperparameters for this model.
So now that we've retrained the new version of our model,
we're now going to go through the process of saving it, just as we did before.
So this will create a new model instance.
Then, we're going to create a new configuration.
Now note here that we now have two different variants that we'll
be setting on this endpoint configuration.
Also,
notice here that because we're specifying the initial
variant weight as being 1 for both,
it should equally split the traffic going to each model 50/50.
Now that we have that configured, we can now go in and update our
endpoint. And notice here that we're calling the update_endpoint
method, and we're passing in the endpoint name that we created
originally and our new endpoint configuration.
So now that the updating of our endpoint has completed, we can now test
our endpoint that has multiple production variants.
So when you invoke the endpoint that has multiple production variants,
you do have a property, InvokedProductionVariant,
that comes back with the result.
So we should be able to view that alongside the prediction to be
able to see how many of our inference requests come back with
one model versus another. And here we can see, this first one
has a prediction of a 7,
and it's using Model1. And the next one has a prediction of a 2, and it's
using Model2. And you can see so on and so forth, this ends up being split
about half and half as we would expect because of the different weights
that we set on each production variant.
So through this process, we have trained an initial model,
and we've gone through the deployment process,
which included creating the model in SageMaker,
creating our endpoint configuration, and deploying our endpoint.
And then we created a new configuration that utilized two
different models that had an equal weight on each.
And then, we deployed an update to our SageMaker Hosting Services endpoint, and it is now utilizing both of those models equally.